drafts/2014_read_books.markdown, before:

---
layout: post
title: 2014 Read Books
category: Read Books
tags: Read Books
---

Fiction
=======

1. **How to Be a Woman** - Catilin Moran  
    *Fun*!
1. **The Kill Room** - Jefferey Deaver
1. **A Song of Ice and Fire: Game of Thrones** - George R.R. Martin  
    Reread.
1. **A Song of Ice and Fire: A Clash of Kings** - George R.R. Martin  
    Reread.
1. **A Song of Ice and Fire: A Storm of Swords** - George R.R. Martin  
    Reread.
1. **The First Law: The Blade Itself** - Joe Abercrombie  
1. **The First Law: Before They Are Hanged** - Joe Abercrombie  

Non-Fiction
===========

1. **The Power of Habit** - Charles Duhigg  
    How habits work. Helped me get more productive.
1. **En Perfekt Natt** - Björn Jedensjö
1. **Elementary Number Theory** - Kenneth H. Rosen  
    Course book. Fun subject.
1. **Competitive Programming 3** - Steven & Felix Halim  
    The ultimate reference to competitive programming. A lot about problem solving and algorithms. Very good. Used as course book as well.
1. **[Game Programming Patterns][]** - Bob Nystrom  
    A very good read.
1. **Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs** - Gerald Jay Sussman, Hal Abelson  
    The examples are what makes this book really shine.
1. **Automated Planning** - Ghallab, Na, Traverso  
    Course book. Subject very interesting, book a bit heavy.
1. **A Drunkard's Walk**  
    Interesting and eye opening.
1. **Logic, Programming and Prolog (2ed)** - U. Nilsson and J. Maluszynski  
    Couse book. A bit too theoretical for my taste.
1. **Introduction to Cryptography with Coding Theory** - Wade Trappe, Lawrence C. Washington
    Course book, quite good.

[Game Programming Patterns]: http://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/ "Game Programming Patterns"

Unread
======

Fiction
-------

1. V for Vendetta
1. Food Junkie
1. The Five Rings
1. A Song of Ice and Fire (re-read!)
1. Some Lee Child books...


Non-Fiction
--------

1. Bayesian Learning
1. Code Breakers
1. CODE
1. The Design of everyday things

1. Stretching scientifically (re-read)
1. Taekwon-do sparring
1. Land of Lisp
1. Learn you a Haskell (re-read)
1. Marilyn Monroe

Commit message:

First Law trilogy is done.

drafts/2014_read_books.markdown, after:

---
layout: post
title: 2014 Read Books
category: Read Books
tags: Read Books
---

Fiction
=======

1. **How to Be a Woman** - Catilin Moran  
    *Fun*!
1. **The Kill Room** - Jefferey Deaver
1. **A Song of Ice and Fire: Game of Thrones** - George R.R. Martin  
    Reread.
1. **A Song of Ice and Fire: A Clash of Kings** - George R.R. Martin  
    Reread.
1. **A Song of Ice and Fire: A Storm of Swords** - George R.R. Martin  
    Reread.
1. **The First Law: The Blade Itself** - Joe Abercrombie  
1. **The First Law: Before They Are Hanged** - Joe Abercrombie  
1. **The First Law: The Last Argument of Kings** - Joe Abercrombie  

Non-Fiction
===========

1. **The Power of Habit** - Charles Duhigg  
    How habits work. Helped me get more productive.
1. **En Perfekt Natt** - Björn Jedensjö
1. **Elementary Number Theory** - Kenneth H. Rosen  
    Course book. Fun subject.
1. **Competitive Programming 3** - Steven & Felix Halim  
    The ultimate reference to competitive programming. A lot about problem solving and algorithms. Very good. Used as course book as well.
1. **[Game Programming Patterns][]** - Bob Nystrom  
    A very good read.
1. **Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs** - Gerald Jay Sussman, Hal Abelson  
    The examples are what makes this book really shine.
1. **Automated Planning** - Ghallab, Na, Traverso  
    Course book. Subject very interesting, book a bit heavy.
1. **A Drunkard's Walk**  
    Interesting and eye opening.
1. **Logic, Programming and Prolog (2ed)** - U. Nilsson and J. Maluszynski  
    Couse book. A bit too theoretical for my taste.
1. **Introduction to Cryptography with Coding Theory** - Wade Trappe, Lawrence C. Washington
    Course book, quite good.

[Game Programming Patterns]: http://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/ "Game Programming Patterns"

Unread
======

Fiction
-------

1. V for Vendetta
1. Food Junkie
1. The Five Rings
1. A Song of Ice and Fire (re-read!)
1. Some Lee Child books...


Non-Fiction
--------

1. Bayesian Learning
1. Code Breakers
1. CODE
1. The Design of everyday things

1. Stretching scientifically (re-read)
1. Taekwon-do sparring
1. Land of Lisp
1. Learn you a Haskell (re-read)
1. Marilyn Monroe
