drafts/2014_in_review.markdown, before:

---
layout: post
title: 2014 in Review
category: Yearly Review
tags: Yearly Review
---

Previous reviews: [2010][], [2011][], [2012][] and [2013][].

[2013]: /blog/2014/01/04/2013_in_review/ "2013 in Review"
[2012]: /blog/2012/12/31/2012_in_review/ "2012 in Review"
[2011]: /blog/2012/01/04/2011_in_review/ "2011 in Review"
[2010]: /blog/2011/01/06/2010_in_review/ "2010 in Review"

2014 Geek Achievements
======================
1. Solved [X UVa problems][UVa].
1. Won a turn in [IMPA][] and solved a bunch of problems.
1. Completed a [doctorand course][] about algorithmic problem solving.
1. Finished my 4 first years in University.
1. Became a contributor to [rust][].
1. Completed the online course [Machine Learning][] in Coursera.
1. Entered [Ludum Dare 29][].
1. Had an [awesome summer job at Configura][configura].
1. Entered [IDA Summer of Code][].
1. Wrote a lot of Rust and C++.
1. Wrote some CM, Racket, Haskell, Lua, Prolog, ...
1. Was a mentor in *Discrete Math*.

[doctorand course]: http://www.ida.liu.se/~frehe/aaps/ "AAPS"
[UVa]: http://uhunt.felix-halim.net/id/115705 "UVa"
[IMPA]: http://www.ida.liu.se/projects/impa/new/results "IMPA"
[rust]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust "rust github"
[Machine Learning]: https://www.coursera.org/course/ml "Machine Learning at Coursera"
[Ludum Dare 29]: http://www.ludumdare.com/compo/ludum-dare-29/?action=preview&uid=1895 "Ludum Dare 29: Mining Incorporated"
[configura]: /blog/2014/07/13/summer_job_at_configura/ "Summer job at Configura"
[IDA Summer of Code]: /blog/tags/IDA%20Summer%20of%20Code/ "IDA Summer of Code 2014"

2014 Non-Geek Achievements
===========================
1. Achieved X-kup in Taekwon-do.
1. Been a kids trainer in Taekwon-do. Very rewarding.
1. Read [X books][books read]
1. Discovered [Go][], the boardgame.
1. Read some manga and manwha.  
    *Kingdom* Was the year's highlight.

[books read]: #
[Go]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_%28game%29 "Go"

2014 Failures
==============
1. Did not complete my Ludum Dare entry.
1. Did not start a hardware project.

Plans for 2014
===============

Commit message:

Add some things to 2014 review.

drafts/2014_in_review.markdown, after:

---
layout: post
title: 2014 in Review
category: Yearly Review
tags: Yearly Review
---

Previous reviews: [2010][], [2011][], [2012][] and [2013][].

[2013]: /blog/2014/01/04/2013_in_review/ "2013 in Review"
[2012]: /blog/2012/12/31/2012_in_review/ "2012 in Review"
[2011]: /blog/2012/01/04/2011_in_review/ "2011 in Review"
[2010]: /blog/2011/01/06/2010_in_review/ "2010 in Review"

2014 Geek Achievements
======================
1. Solved [73 UVa problems][UVa].
1. Won a turn in [IMPA][] and solved a bunch of problems.
1. Completed a [doctorand course][] about algorithmic problem solving.
1. Finished my 4 first years in University.
1. Became a contributor to [rust][] and became [a friend of the tree][].
1. Completed the online course [Machine Learning][] in Coursera.
1. Entered [Ludum Dare 29][].
1. Had an [awesome summer job at Configura][configura].
1. Entered [IDA Summer of Code][].
1. Wrote a lot of Rust and C++.
1. Wrote some CM, Racket, Haskell, Lua, Prolog, ...
1. Made a [timeedit rust library][libtimeedit], scheduling information for university.
1. Made a [habitrpg rust library][libhabitrpg], fetching info from [habitrpg][].
1. Was a mentor in *Discrete Math*.

[doctorand course]: http://www.ida.liu.se/~frehe/aaps/ "AAPS"
[UVa]: http://uhunt.felix-halim.net/id/115705 "UVa"
[IMPA]: http://www.ida.liu.se/projects/impa/new/results "IMPA"
[rust]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust "rust github"
[a friend of the tree]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/wiki/Doc-friends-of-the-tree#2014-07-22-jonas-hietala-treeman "friend of the tree, rust's tree"
[Machine Learning]: https://www.coursera.org/course/ml "Machine Learning at Coursera"
[Ludum Dare 29]: http://www.ludumdare.com/compo/ludum-dare-29/?action=preview&uid=1895 "Ludum Dare 29: Mining Incorporated"
[configura]: /blog/2014/07/13/summer_job_at_configura/ "Summer job at Configura"
[IDA Summer of Code]: /blog/tags/IDA%20Summer%20of%20Code/ "IDA Summer of Code 2014"
[libtimeedit]: https://github.com/treeman/libtimeedit "libtimeedit"
[libhabitrpg]: https://github.com/treeman/libhabitrpg "libhabitrpg"
[habitrpg]: https://habitrpg.com/ "habitrpg"

2014 Non-Geek Achievements
===========================
1. Achieved 2-kup in Taekwon-do.
1. Been mostly pain-free, better at least.
1. Been a kids trainer in Taekwon-do. Very rewarding.
1. Survived a couple of training camps.
1. Read [X books][books read]
1. Discovered [Go][], the boardgame.
1. Read some manga and manwha.  
    *Kingdom* Was the year's highlight.
1. Got a few 12-win arena runs in [Hearthstone][]

[books read]: #
[Go]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_%28game%29 "Go"
[Hearthstone]: http://us.battle.net/en/int?r=hearthstone "Hearthstone"

2014 Failures
==============
1. Did not complete my Ludum Dare entry.
1. Did not start a hardware project.
1. Got burnt out.

Plans for 2014
===============
1. Take more care of Veronica.
1. Achieve 1-kup in Taekwon-do.
1. Do more strength training.
1. Do some more yoga.
1. Participate in [Ludum Dare][].
1. Read more books.
1. Play some more boardgames.
1. Complete the exjobb.
1. Get a job?

[Ludum Dare]: http://www.ludumdare.com/
