drafts/beakl-hietala_1.markdown, before:

---
title: "Beakl-Hietala 1"
tags: Computer, Keyboards
---

# Base

![Legend](/images/beakl-hietala/legend.png)

![Base layer](/images/beakl-hietala/base.png)

![Number layer](/images/beakl-hietala/num.png)

![Function layer](/images/beakl-hietala/fun.png)

![Mouse and shortcuts](/images/beakl-hietala/short.png)

![Special characters](/images/beakl-hietala/spec.png)



# Layout

![Coording](/images/beakl-hietala/coord1.png)

![Coording](/images/beakl-hietala/coord2.png)

![Coording](/images/beakl-hietala/coord3.png)

![Symbols layer](/images/beakl-hietala/sym.png)

![Special coording](/images/beakl-hietala/spec-coord.png)

Purple keys needs to be double tapped, to prevent accidental presses.

There's also a coord available for mouse middle click.


# Analysis

![Difficulty matrix](/images/beakl-hietala/diff.png)

![Key frequencies, excluding space](/images/beakl-hietala/single-freq.svg)

![Digit frequencies](/images/beakl-hietala/digit-freq.svg)

![Symbol frequencies](/images/beakl-hietala/symbol-freq.svg)

# TODO

1. Double tap for "->" etc
2. Symbols layout, symbols under shift and coorded symbols

## Settings

* Caps lock
* Swap caps locks and escape
* Unicode driver

## Special characters

* åäö
* é and è (and the roof?)
* €

Commit message:

Keyboard layout images and stuff

drafts/beakl-hietala_1.markdown, after:

---
title: "Beakl-Hietala 1"
tags: Computer, Keyboards
---

# The layout

![Legend](/images/beakl-hietala/legend.png)

## Base layer

![Base layer](/images/beakl-hietala/base.png)

## Numbers and functions

![Number layer](/images/beakl-hietala/num.png)

![Function layer](/images/beakl-hietala/fun.png)

## Symbols

## Special characters

![Special characters](/images/beakl-hietala/spec.png)

## Mouse and shortcuts

![Mouse and shortcuts](/images/beakl-hietala/short.png)



# Layout

![Coording](/images/beakl-hietala/coord1.png)

![Coording](/images/beakl-hietala/coord2.png)

![Coording](/images/beakl-hietala/coord3.png)

![Symbols layer](/images/beakl-hietala/sym.png)

![Special coording](/images/beakl-hietala/spec-coord.png)

Purple keys needs to be double tapped, to prevent accidental presses.

There's also a coord available for mouse middle click.


# Analysis

![Difficulty matrix](/images/beakl-hietala/diff.png)

## Key frequencies

![Key frequencies from code analysis, excluding space](/images/beakl-hietala/single-freq.svg)

![Key frequencies from keylog session, excluding special keys](/images/beakl-hietala/single-freq-keylog.svg)

While the letters themselves differ more than I expected, in general letters are more common than both digits and symbols. Therefore it's fine to choose an existing layout, such as the Beakl family.

![Special keys from keylog session](/images/beakl-hietala/spec-freq-keylog.svg)

![Digit frequencies](/images/beakl-hietala/combined-digit-freq.svg)

![Symbol frequencies](/images/beakl-hietala/combined-symbol-freq.svg)

# TODO

1. Double tap for "->" etc
2. Symbols layout, symbols under shift and coorded symbols

## Settings

* Caps lock
* Swap caps locks and escape
* Unicode driver

## Special characters

* åäö
* é and è (and the roof?)
* €
