drafts/kyria_1.markdown, before:

---
title: "Kyria-Hietala 0.1"
tags: Computer, Keyboards
---

![Legend. Does not apply to combos.](/images/kyria/legend.png)

# Base layer

Based on [Beakl-15](https://deskthority.net/wiki/BEAKL#BEAKL_15).

![Base layer](/images/kyria/base.png)

Leader sequence     Command
-------             -----------------
C C                 Caps lock
Escape              Swap Caps lock and escape
Enter               Clear all mods
G G                 Switch to gaming layer
M                   Switch to movement layer

Left rotary                     Right rotary
----                            -----
Alt+Tab / Shift+Alt+Tab         Raise/Lower volume
Ctrl+Tab / Shift+Ctrl+Tab
PageUp / PageDown

## Combos

```
Top row
K + C             Tab                     U + _     Backspace
        Y + F     Z               W + :             ^
    C + Y         Q                   : + U         $

Home row
        T + H     '               N + A             "
    S + T         Escape              A + I         Enter
    S +     H     -               N +     I         +
    S + T + H     ;               N + A + I         =

Bottom row
        G + P     `               L + (             \
    V + G         |                   ( + )         @
    V + G + P     Movement layer  L + ( + )         Swedish layer

```

![Vertical symbol combos](/images/kyria/sym-combo.png)

# Shift layer

![Shift overlay](/images/kyria/shift.png)

# Swedish layer

![Swedish overlay](/images/kyria/swe.png)

# Num layer

![Num layer](/images/kyria/num.png)

# Function layer

![Function keys](/images/kyria/fun.png)

# Steno-lite combos

![Steno-lite combos. Either coord Space + key or E + key, always with the same hand.](/images/kyria/steno.png)

# Misc

![Misc keys](/images/kyria/misc.png)

Key     Click       Double click
------  ---------   ------------
~       ~ (dead)    ¨ (dead)

# Left handed mouse and movements

# Left handed shortcut layer

# Gaming layer

# Display information

## Left

* Keymap version
* Left rotary state
* WPM

## Right

* Layer
* Mods
* Caps lock on/off?
* Swapped caps lock state

# Ideas

* If combos are too awkward, ... introduce a symbols layer?
* Num on far thumb button instead of inner? Maybe?
* `=` needs a place

Commit message:

Covered symbols in swedish mode

drafts/kyria_1.markdown, after:

---
title: "Kyria-Hietala 0.1"
tags: Computer, Keyboards
---

![Legend. Does not apply to combos.](/images/kyria/legend.png)

# Base layer

Based on [Beakl-15](https://deskthority.net/wiki/BEAKL#BEAKL_15).

![Base layer](/images/kyria/base.png)

Leader sequence     Command
-------             -----------------
C C                 Caps lock
Escape              Swap Caps lock and escape
Enter               Clear all mods
G G                 Switch to gaming layer
M                   Switch to movement layer

Left rotary                     Right rotary
----                            -----
Alt+Tab / Shift+Alt+Tab         Raise/Lower volume
Ctrl+Tab / Shift+Ctrl+Tab
PageUp / PageDown

## Combos

```
Top row
K + C             Tab                     U + _     Backspace
        Y + F     Z               W + :             ^
    C + Y         Q                   : + U         $

Home row
        T + H     '               N + A             "
    S + T         Escape              A + I         Enter
    S +     H     -               N +     I         +
    S + T + H     ;               N + A + I         =

Bottom row
        G + P     `               L + (             \
    V + G         |                   ( + )         @
    V + G + P     Movement layer  L + ( + )         Swedish layer

```

![Vertical symbol combos](/images/kyria/sym-combo.png)

# Shift layer

![Shift overlay](/images/kyria/shift.png)

# Swedish layer

![Swedish overlay](/images/kyria/swe.png)

If access to the covered symbols is required, they can be accessed with the `BASE SYM` key.

# Num layer

![Num layer](/images/kyria/num.png)

# Function layer

![Function keys](/images/kyria/fun.png)

# Steno-lite combos

![Steno-lite combos. Either coord Space + key or E + key, always with the same hand.](/images/kyria/steno.png)

# Misc

![Misc keys](/images/kyria/misc.png)

Key     Click       Double click
------  ---------   ------------
~       ~ (dead)    ¨ (dead)

# Left handed mouse and movements

# Left handed shortcut layer

# Gaming layer

# Display information

## Left

* Keymap version
* Left rotary state
* WPM

## Right

* Layer
* Mods
* Caps lock on/off?
* Swapped caps lock state

# Ideas

* If combos are too awkward, ... introduce a symbols layer?
* Num on far thumb button instead of inner? Maybe?
* `=` needs a place
