static/masters_thesis.markdown, before:

---
title: "Master's Thesis"
---

Master's thesis
===============

I wrote my master's thesis for Comordo Technologies during the spring of 2015 where I developed a first version of their recommendation system.

[Download][report] the report or view the [source][src] of the written report.

[Here][presentation] is the presentation I made using [Prezi][].

Abstract
--------

Recommendations are becoming more and more important in a world where there is an abundance of possible choices and e-commerce and content providers are featuring recommendations prominently. Recommendations based on *explicit feedback*, where user is giving feedback for example with ratings, has been a popular research subject. *Implicit feedback* recommender systems which passively collects information about the users is an area growing in interest. It makes it possible to generate recommendations based purely from a user's interactions history without requiring any explicit input from the users, which is commercially useful for a wide area of businesses. This thesis builds a recommender system based on implicit feedback using the recommendation algorithms *katz-eig* and *link-analysis* and analyzes and implements strategies for learning optimized parameters for different datasets. The resulting system forms the foundation for Comordo Technologies' commercial recommender system.

[report]: https://github.com/treeman/masters-thesis/releases/download/v1.3/report.pdf "The report"
[src]: https://github.com/treeman/masters-thesis/ "Source for the report"
[presentation]: https://prezi.com/krjyzmkda2qb/master-thesis-presentation/?utm_campaign=share&utm_medium=copy "My presentation"
[Prezi]: https://prezi.com/ "Prezi"

Commit message:

Link to LiU e-press instead.

static/masters_thesis.markdown, after:

---
title: "Master's Thesis"
---

Master's thesis
===============

I wrote my master's thesis for Comordo Technologies during the spring of 2015 where I developed a first version of their recommendation system.

[View][liu_report] the report at LiU or a [direct link][report] to the report. You can also view the [source][src] of the written report. Code produced during the thesis will not be published.

[Here][presentation] is the presentation I made using [Prezi][].

Abstract
--------

Recommendations are becoming more and more important in a world where there is an abundance of possible choices and e-commerce and content providers are featuring recommendations prominently. Recommendations based on *explicit feedback*, where user is giving feedback for example with ratings, has been a popular research subject. *Implicit feedback* recommender systems which passively collects information about the users is an area growing in interest. It makes it possible to generate recommendations based purely from a user's interactions history without requiring any explicit input from the users, which is commercially useful for a wide area of businesses. This thesis builds a recommender system based on implicit feedback using the recommendation algorithms *katz-eig* and *link-analysis* and analyzes and implements strategies for learning optimized parameters for different datasets. The resulting system forms the foundation for Comordo Technologies' commercial recommender system.

[liu_report]: http://urn.kb.se/resolve?urn=urn%3Anbn%3Ase%3Aliu%3Adiva-119169 "The report at LiU"
[report]: http://liu.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:821501/FULLTEXT01.pdf "The report"
[src]: https://github.com/treeman/masters-thesis/ "Source for the report"
[presentation]: https://prezi.com/krjyzmkda2qb/master-thesis-presentation/?utm_campaign=share&utm_medium=copy "My presentation"
[Prezi]: https://prezi.com/ "Prezi"
