---
layout: post
title: 2012 Read Books
category: Read Books
tags: Read Books
---


I read a post, sadly lost the link, where the author had recorded all books she had read during the year and I thought it'd be pretty fun to do. So here goes, in a mostly ordered list.


1. **The Art of Learning** - *Josh Waitzkin*
1. **Världens Whiskey**  
    More of a reference book.
1. **Linear Algebra Done Right**  
    Course book.
1. **Linear Algebra Done Wrong**  
    Course book.
1. **Effective Prototyping for Software Makers**  
    Course book, selected chapters.
1. **Över Näktergalens Golv**
1. **På en kudde av gräs**
1. **Optimeringslära** - *Kaj Holmberg*  
    Course book, great both as a learning tool and reference book.
1. **Dune** - *Frank Herbert*  
    A truly great book, the sci-fi world is amazing.
1. **Under lysande måne**
1. **Fit Forever** - *Dolhp Lundgren*
1. **The Book of Cain**
1. **Dune Messiah** - *Frank Herbert*  
    Not quite like the first book, but still brilliant.
1. **Lärjungen**
1. **The C programming Language** - *Kernighan and Ritchie*  
    Did not do all exercises, really good book.
1. **Software Engineering**  
    Course book.
1. **Operating System Concepts**  
    Course book. Pretty good, although a bit wordy at times.
1. **Linear Systems and Signals** - *B. P. Lathi*  
    Course book. Quite good.
1. **XO** - *Jeffery Deaver*
1. **The Definite Book of Body Language** - *Allan & Barbara Pease*  
    Very informative and also pretty funny.

All in all, I did not read that many books this year. I did start on a few which I never finished for various reasons.

