---
layout: post
title: 2011 in Review
category: Yearly Review
tags: Rants, 2011, General
time: 10:49:12
---
It's time to wrap up the year that's been. Be warned for slight ego boosting here.

2011 Geek Achievements
===============================

1. Wrote three games this year:
   <ul>
     <li><a href="/games/my_minions">My-Minions</a></li>
     <li><a href="/games/grand_thief_arto">Grand Thief Arto</a></li>
     <li><a href="/games/sat-e">Sat-E</a></li>
   </ul>
2. Bought a [new computer](/blog/2011/08/21/new_computer)!
3. Bought a mechanical keyboard.
4. Bought [custom Starcraft 2 keycaps](/blog/2011/12/16/starcraft_2_keycaps) for the keyboard.
5. Learned 68k assembly.
6. Learned about algorithms and data structures.
7. Bought a lot of programming books.
   <ul>
     <li>The Pragmatic Programmer</li>
     <li>Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs</li>
     <li>Introduction to Algorithms</li>
     <li>Modern Perl</li>
     <li>Effective Java</li>
     <li>Learn You a Haskell for Great Good!</li>
     <li>Land of Lisp</li>
     <li>Maybe something more...</li>
   </ul>
8. Read a lot of programming books. Modern Perl and The Pragmatic Programmer were my favourites.
8. Learned some Ada.
8. Learned a lot of Perl.
8. Learned a tiny bit of Haskell.
9. Learned some [emacs](http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/)
9. Got a hint of design understanding thanks to [Design for Hackers](http://www.designforhackers.com/)

2011 Non-Geek Achievements
===============================
1. Went to a dance course with Veronica.
2. My stumach is in good shape!
3. Read and loved A Song of Ice and Fire.
5. Achieved 7 kup in Taekwon-do.
10. Read a *lot* of manga. Some recommendations:
    <li>Bakuman. A nice slice of life manga about... making manga. Surprisingly captivating.</li>
    <li>Gamaran. A slightly brutal battle manga with loads of weapons.</li>
    <li>Vinland Saga. A bit more brutal battle manga about vikings and war.</li>
    <li>Beelzebub. Battle manga but with a ton of light hearted humor.</li>
    <li>The Breaker. Another battle manga, a bit more direct perhaps.</li>

2011 Failures
================
1. Didn't produce enough games.
2. Didn't write enough code.
3. Did not learn enough Haskell.
4. Have a lot of books I haven't read yet.
5. Did not have enough free time.

Plans for 2012
==================
1. Keep Veronica happy!
2. Make more games.
3. Code more! Much more!
4. Blog more!
5. Learn more Haskell (yet again)...
6. Transform my site to something new, something that I don't dread to use.
7. Improve in Taekwon-do.
8. Be more disciplined in studying, coding, training and cleaning.
9. Read the programming books I have but have not read yet.
   <li>A book about Erlang.</li>
   <li>K&amp;R C Programming language.</li>
   <li>SICP, all important for every programmers. I hear.</li>
   <li>Probably missed something... Damn I've got many.</li>
10. Get good results in school.
11. Try to be a bit more social (it's hard).
12. Get more free time somehow.
13. Complete a larger personal project.
14. Learn more mathematics.

