---
title: "2023 in review"
tags: [Yearly Review]
---

This is my [yearly review][] #14.
Amazing that I've kept up with this for 14 years.

Even though it's not anything advanced, I really like looking back at the year to see what has happened.
Maybe it's a very light version of a [reverse bucket list][], and I can see that it provides some of the same happiness benefits.

# 2023 Non-Geek Achievements

- All my three kids are happy and healthy.

  It's thanks to Veronica, but I'd like to think I've contributed something.

- Wrote [17 blog posts][posts]!

  Most of them were written (and published) in the last quarter where I got bitten by the blogging bug.

# 2023 Geek Achievements

- [I beat FTL on Hard with all ships in the game][ftl].
- [I built a VORON][VORON] and got into 3D printing.
- [Two][hn1] of my [blog][hn2] posts got to the front page of Hacker News.

  I've always blogged to write for myself and never because I wanted my blog to be popular, but it was still nice to see some people appreciate it.

- I [rewrote my Neovim config in Lua][neovim-lua].
- I gave the blog a [sorely needed facelift][facelift].
- I wrapped up my series about the [T-34 keyboard layout][t-34].

# 2023 Misadventures

- While I finished the eBook of [my book][], I only made it available for purchase using cryptocurrencies a short amount of time.

  The reason is that I made it available with [my payment processor][bitpal], but I ran out of energy so I shut down the server.
  I really need to get it together and just upload it somewhere so it's purchasable normally.

  Maybe I should just make it available for free, so I can close the chapter on the book project?

- I didn't read that many books---at least I don't remember that I did.

- Despite me trying to reduce it, the boardgame list of shame grew this year.

  There's a complete stop to Kickstarters and buying new games until I correct this mess.

# Plans for 2024

- Focus on mental and physical health, with a focus on strength training.

- Finally complete the book project by putting the eBook widely available and finishing the [How I wrote 'Why Cryptocurrencies?'][crypto-series] series.

- Finish my planned mods on my [VORON][] 3D printer and complete the blog series.

- Complete my Git rewrite in Rust project, that i left hanging back in 2020.

  I'm already thinking of postponing this again...
  But maybe I can make some amount of progress at least?

- Start a new long-term project.

  I've promised myself to finish up my ongoing projects before I'm allowed to do this, but we'll see how that goes.
  (Not well I suppose.)

[posts]: /blog/2023/ "My blog posts in 2023"
[ftl]: /blog/2023/06/16/i_beat_ftl_on_hard_with_all_ships_in_the_game/ "I beat FTL on Hard with all ships in the game"
[VORON]: /series/voron_trident/ "Series: Let's build a VORON Trident"
[my book]: https://whycryptocurrencies.com/ "Why Cryptocurrencies?: What they are, what they do, and why they matter"
[bitpal]: https://github.com/bitpal/bitpal "BitPal is a self-hosted payment processor"
[hn1]: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37995254
[hn2]: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38112596
[t-34]: /series/t-34/ "The T-34 keyboard layout"
[facelift]: /blog/2023/10/04/giving_the_blog_a_facelift/ "Giving the blog a facelift"
[neovim-lua]: /blog/2023/10/01/rewriting_my_neovim_config_in_lua/ "Rewriting my Neovim config in Lua"
[crypto-series]: /series/making-cryptobook/ "How I wrote 'Why Cryptocurrencies?'"
[yearly review]: /blog/tags/yearly_review/ "Yearly reviews"
[reverse bucket list]: https://www.inc.com/jessica-stillman/happiness-fulfillment-reverse-bucket-list.html "The Secret to Happiness, According to This Harvard Professor: A Reverse Bucket List"
[burnout]: /blog/2023/03/14/battling_burnout/ "Battling burnout"
